In this lesson, I'll show you how we can improve some validation logic for our props in our action
button component.
So I'd like you to focus your attention to this prop validation for the type prop we're currently mandating
that it's going to be a string, right?
But if you think about it, the way that our styles are set up here, especially with this computed
property, we can be a little bit more precise than that.
It's not just that the type should be a string, it's that the type should be one of two current values,
either primary or secondary.
Right.
That's really how this component is meant to work is the parent should tell me whether it's a primary
button or a secondary button, and it shouldn't just be able to feed in any string whatsoever to the
type prop.
So how can we add that kind of validation logic so that Vue can run some kind of validation logic any
time a parent component renders an action button and gives me a type prop?
Well, we can add a method here called validator.
This name is once again not up to us.
It is a requirement of view and we have to define this method to accept one parameter.
I'm going to give it a name, a value, and this will represent the actual prop value that is passed
in.
So in other words, whatever we provide for the type prop, this is what Vue is going to pass in as
the value argument.
And in the body of this method, we define how to perform that validation.
And here's the way it works.
If the validator method returns true, then Vue will see that that is a confirmed validation.
In other words, we're going to pass the criteria or the condition and Vue is going to give a thumbs
up.
Conversely, if the validator method returns a false, then that will mean that we have not validated
the value.
It is invalid.
It is not suitable, it is not good.
Right.
So similarly to how Vue will perform validation on the type and for example, the requirements and things
like that.
This is our own way to add our own custom validation, our own business logic here.
So let me show you how this is going to work.
What I'm going to do is returning Boolean and the way I'm going to do that is by creating an array of
the two string values that I can expect.
We can only get a primary or a secondary string here.
And then on an array in ESX we have a method called includes.
And that method is going to check whether the array contains a specific value.
It's just going to give a true or a false.
We're not worried about the index position or anything like that.
We're just worried about whether the array contains that value.
So what I want to do is check whether an array of primary secondary includes whatever value is passed
in for the prop.
Right?
So what I'm doing here is now I'm mandating that primary or secondary be the value of the type prop
because if the value is anything else, for example, let me right here go and let me provide a type
prop and let me provide, for example, a string of nonsense.
Right.
That's totally invalid.
That's not excess class.
Well, when our validator runs, it's going to receive a value of nonsense.
And it's going to say, does the value nonsense exist within this array of primary secondary?
The answer is false, which means the validator method returns false, which means Vue says this is
not valid.
No good.
Failed the test.
Let me show you a warning in the chrome console.
Alternatively, if we do provide a value here like secondary, then once again Vue will rerun the validator
method.
It's going to say is this string of secondary found in this array?
It is.
So this expression evaluates to true.
The method returns true, and any true will be interpreted as view by view as a confirmed check, as
a valid input for that prop.
So of course, let me just show you the happy path and the sad path here.
I'm going to provide a type of secondary if I go back to my browser.
Let me refresh this.
So we get rid of these formal warnings.
We're going to see that we get no warnings out here.
Everything looks good.
And we do, in fact, get this secondary button on the top.
Right.
Conversely, if I provide something like nonsense.
That is going to trigger a big warning.
Invalid prop custom validator.
Notice our own custom validator method check failed for prop type.
So obviously if you can't tell us exactly what's wrong because we customized the business logic in the
validator method.
But it's least, at least giving us a warning that something has gone wrong with the way that our parent
component is passing in the type prop value for the action.
But you'll also notice if I go back to my editor and I open up my terminal here and I run a test suite.
Let me go ahead and run and PM run test colon.
Let's do watch here.
Just to run this and watch mode, we're also going to get a warning in our test suite.
That's another added benefit as always of adding more information.
You'll notice festival back up.
We're actually going to get this warning not from our action button tests, but from our main nav tests.
Right.
So our main NAV, the way it currently works is it's going to render the main nav that we have right
here on the left.
It's going to mounted.
And because we've hardwired a hardcoded value of nonsense for the type prop for the action button that
is within May.
Now whenever we mount a main component view is going to see that we're rendering an action button within
it and that the tests are feeding in a invalid value for type.
And that's simply because the actual implementation is feeding in a valid value for invalid value for
type, right?
So the cool thing is whenever you make mistakes, your tests are going to catch it in addition to the
browser.
That's why it pays to have a really good test suite.
So of course, if I change this to either the value primary or secondary, let's do primary here.
We're going to see that those warnings disappear from our tests because our main nav now, when it's
mounted, will provide a normal value for the type prop of the action button that is being rendered
inside.
All right.
And just going back to what we talked about earlier, given that this value is not required, we can
totally remove this type prop from here as well.
That's totally valid because in that case view is going to fall back to the default value of primary,
which will in turn pass the validator method check.
It's a totally fine.
And if of course, we want to add a new access class in an upcoming update, that's totally fine.
All we have to do is make sure that we provide that third CSC class right here and then make sure we
add the name of that class right here in this array.
And that will be totally valid, right?
That's all there is to cover.
In this lesson, we talked about how we can add custom validation to any of our props.
We simply provide the validator method.
We give it a single parameter which is going to represent the actual value.
And then however we want to confirm that that value is valid, we can wire up that logic in the validator
method.
The validator method must return a boolean true to indicate that something should pass and false to
indicate that something should not pass, that it is not valid.
All right.
That's all there is to cover here.
So I will see you in the next lesson.